## Container Registry and Docker Volume


Updating...

- [Docker Registry](#what-is-container-registry)
- [Docker Volume](#what-is-docker-volume)
- [Small lab: Set up private registry and use Docker volume to save container data](#small-lab)

## What is Container Registry?

A *container registry* is a singular place where developers can store repositories, manage container images and share them.

There are some benefits of container registry like:

- Provide a place to save images for sharing and collaboration.

- Act as a single source of truth for an application or component, providing the most recent version ready for replication and use.

- Define container image approved for use in organization.

We can divide container registry into 2 types:

- `Public Registry`: Dockerhub..
- `Private Registry`: Amazon ECR, On-premise..



## What is Docker Volume?

By default, all files created inside a container are stored on writable container layer. This means The data doesn't persist when the container is no longer exists.

Docker has two options for containers to store files on the host machine, so that the files are persisted even after the container stops: **volumes** and bind mount.

(Read more about [tmpfs]() and [named pipe]())


## Small lab

Step 1: Set up docker in a VM

First, I have a VM with Docker installed:

```console
$ hostname -I
192.168.56.6
```

Docker installed

```console
$ docker --version
Docker version 27.3.1, build ce12230
```

Step 2: Create a docker volume to store data (docker images in registry container)

Before create a docker volume, i need to pull the `registry` image:

```console
$ docker pull registry:2
...
$ docker images
REPOSITORY    TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED         SIZE
registry      2         75ef5b734af4   12 months ago   25.4MB
```

Create a docker volume:

```console
$ docker volume create my_registry 
$ docker volume ls
DRIVER    VOLUME NAME
local     my_registry
```

Run registry image with volume `my_registry` mounted:

```console
$ docker run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry -v my_registry:/var/lib/registry registry:2
```

- **my_registry**: my volume
- **/var/lib/registry**: is where registry image data stored in docker container

Now, we check if image running correctly:

```console
$ curl localhost:5000/v2/_catalog
{"repositories":[]}
```

We can see that the registry is empty now. Push a image to it and check again:

```console
$ docker tag nginx:alpine localhost:5000/nginx-test
$ docker images
REPOSITORY                  TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED         SIZE
localhost:5000/nginx-test   latest    cb8f91112b6b   3 weeks ago     47MB
$ docker push localhost:5000/nginx-test
```

Check repo, we can see that the image pushed success:

```console
$ curl localhost:5000/v2/_catalog
{"repositories":["nginx-test"]}
```

Step 3: Delete current container

Now, we delete the current container and mount the volume to new container to see if data losted:

```console
$ docker rm -f <current_container_id>
```

Step 4: Run a new container with old volume mounted

```console
$ docker run -d -p 5000:5000 --name registry -v my_registry:/var/lib/registry registry:2
```

Step 5: Final result

Check the repo, we can see that the image still exist in our new container:

```console
$ curl localhost:5000/v2/_catalog
{"repositories":["nginx-test"]}
```

So we use docker volume to save the data success!