## Docker Network


Updating...

**What is Docker Network?** Container networking refers to the ability for containers to connect to and communicate with each other, or to non - Docker workloads.

Contents:

- [bridge](#bridge-network-driver)
- [host](#host-network-driver)
- [none](#none-network-driver)
- [overlay](#overlay-network-driver)
- [ipvlan](#ipvlan-network-driver)
- [macvlan](#macvlan-network-driver)

The above network drivers are avaiable by default, and provide core networking functionality.

### Bridge Network Driver

This is the default network driver in Docker.

In scope of `networking`, a bridge network is a Link Layer device which forwards traffic between network segments.

In Docker, a bridge network uses a software bridge which lets containers connected to the same bridge network communicate, while providing isolation from containers that aren't connected to that bridge network.

Bridge networks apply to containers running on the same Docker daemon host. Containers connected to the bridge network are given an internal IP address to communicate with each other.

### Host Network Driver

This network drive remove network isolation between the container and the Docker host. With Host networking, Network Address Traslation (NAT) is not required, this simplifies the management of multiple ports simultaneously.

### None Network Driver

**None network** driver completely isolate a container from the host and other containers.

Even the container running with **None** network mode, you can still use Docker command like `docker exec` or `docker logs`. This is because these commands dont rely on container's network configuration. It directly interacts with the container through Docker's internal managements mechanisms.

### Overlay Network Driver

This network driver can help us connect multiple Docker daemons together.

### Ipvlan Network Driver

IPvlan networks provide full control over both IPv4 and IPv6 addressing.

### Macvlan Network Driver

This network assign a MAC address to a container.